# Deep-Water Bed classifier and Seidmentary Log Generator

2024-11-13

This repository is linked to the manuscript: **“Quantitative bed-type
classification for a global comparison of deep-water sedimentary
systems”**

**Authors: Budai, S., Colombera, L., McArthur, A. and Patacci, M.**

contact: soma.budai@unipv.it

This repository contains two R codes located in separate folders. The
Deep-Water Bed Classifier R script (DW-BC) can used to classify
deep-water beds into pre-defined bed-types (described in the article)
based on their internal facies. The second script, Deep-Water
Sedimentary Log Generator (DW-SLG) utilizes a compiled dataset and the
bed data generated by the first script to create synthetic 1D
representation of terminal deposit, channel and levee elements in the
form of sedimentary logs.

Both scripts are supplied with dummy datasets as .csv files, to access
these datasets without modifying the code the folder hierarchy of the
repository should not be changed and the R project file should be used.
Further information can be read in the manuals linked to the scripts.

Both scripts are supplied with example outputs.

### Required packages

- MASS (version 7.3-60.2, included in base R)

- dplyr (1.1.4)

- ggplot2 (3.5.1)

- ggpubr (0.6.0)

- stringr (1.5.1)

### How to run the scripts

After download the .R files can be opened and run in any IDE capable to
run R scripts (the presented codes were written and tested in RStudio
(version 2024.09.0+375)). An R project file named
deep_water_bed_types.Rpro is also provided.
